[//]: # ("tags": [], "category": "Uncategorized")

# Memo

## Scope

> The difference between lexical and dynamic scope comes down to how an implementation deals with free variables. A symbol is bound in an expression if it has been established as a variable, either by appearing as a parameter, or by variable-binding operators like let and do. Symbols which are not bound are said to be free. In this example, scope comes into play:
>
> ```lisp
> (let ((y 7))
>   (defun scope-test (x)
>     (list x y)))
> ```
>
> Within the defun expression, x is bound and y is free. Free variables are interesting because it’s not obvious what their values should be. There’s no uncertainty about the value of a bound variable—when scope-test is called, the value of x should be whatever is passed as the argument. But what should be the value of y? This is the question answered by the dialect’s scope rules.
>  
> In a dynamically scoped Lisp, to find the value of a free variable when executing scope-test, we look back through the chain of functions that called it. When we find an environment where y was bound, that binding of y will be the one used in scope-test. If we find none, we take the global value of y. Thus, in a dynamically scoped Lisp, y would have the value it had in the calling expression:
>  
> ```lisp
> (let ((y 5)) (scope-test 3)) ;(3 5)
> ```
>
> With dynamic scope, it means nothing that y was bound to 7 when scope-test was defined. All that matters is that y had a value of 5 when scope-test was called.
>  
> In a lexically scoped Lisp, instead of looking back through the chain of calling functions, we look back through the containing environments at the time the function was defined. In a lexically scoped Lisp, our example would catch the binding of y where scope-test was defined. So this is what would happen in Common Lisp:
>  
> ```lisp
> (let ((y 5)) (scope-test 3)) ;(3 7)
> ```
>  
> Here the binding of y to 5 at the time of the call has no effect on the returned value.
>  
> Paul Graham, *On Lisp*, 1993
>  

## Closure

> Because Common Lisp is lexically scoped, when we define a function containing free variables, the system must save copies of the bindings of those variables at the time the function was defined. Such a combination of a function and a set of variable bindings is called a closure.
>  
> Paul Graham, *On Lisp*, 1993
>  